Fix accidental double network call with `useLazyQuery` on some calls of the execute function (#11403)
apollographql/apollo-client: .changeset/honest-turtles-move.md

---
"@apollo/client": patch
---

Fix issue in `useLazyQuery` that results in a double network call when calling the execute function with no arguments after having called it previously with another set of arguments.

> ### IMPORTANT CHANGE

Author: Would love some eyes on this wording 🙂. I think this is important to callout this change since we know users call the query function in a `useEffect`.

Author: This is no longer needed now that the execute function is itself wrapped in `useEvent`, which will maintain a stable render function for the lifetime of the component.

> ### IMPORTANT CHANGE
> 
> The query function returned from `useLazyQuery` is no longer an unconditionally stable reference across renders. The function identity changes when options passed to `useLazyQuery` change, excluding callback function options. This change prevents stale closure issues in the query function which may result in subtle bugs.
> 
> This change only affects you if the query function in used in a `useEffect` callback. `useEffect` may now fire more often when there are changes to the options passed to `useLazyQuery`.

Reviewer: It might be more helpful if the header is more specific (yet still concise) about the impact of the important change. If you want to have something attention catching, maybe use a blockquote for part of the content?

I would also start with the content of the second paragraph since this info is more crucial to end users and the first paragraph is the implementation detail/reason for why the change is now occurring.

Maybe something generally like this:
(I'm sure you'll have more technically accurate words.)

```suggestion
####  Implementation impact

> This change only affects you if you use the query function returned from `useLazyQuery` in  a `useEffect` callback. If you do, `useEffect` may now fire more often when there are changes to the options passed to `useLazyQuery`.

The query function returned from `useLazyQuery` is no longer an unconditionally stable reference across renders. The function identity changes when options passed to `useLazyQuery` change, excluding callback function options. This change prevents stale closure issues in the query function which may result in subtle bugs.
```

Author: Good idea! Thanks for the suggestion! [79c3d8a](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client/pull/11403/commits/79c3d8a97e9a8e84ee1a784370f9b15a4e24c964)
